Let me tell you the basic concept for finding the time complexity, we assume that every statement in
our program takes one unit of time for execution.
Let me give you an idea behind that one.
See, suppose there are some books kept here and you have to move the book and keep it on that shelf
or in Iraq, how much time it takes.
Maybe half a second quarter of a second for somebody who walks very slowly, Medick, once again for
keeping one book there one by one, if you have to keep.
So time varies from person to person.
So we don't mention seconds or milliseconds.
We say one unit of time, like if you take the example of currency, one dollar, one would be one born.
So we say one.
But what is the market value that would be different?
So we say one bug or one unit of currency.
So simply we assume that every statement makes one unit of time.
If that statement is repeated multiple times, then you count the frequency how many times it is executed.
So that is sufficient for analyzing our function.
Now let us see what our function is doing is doing nothing just printing.
So it is printing a value and how much time it takes for printing one unit of time.
One unit of time.
How many times print was written here?
Only one time.
So it is just one.
But this is a recursive function.
So it is calling itself again and again so total how many times it's printing.
So let us look at and do the briefing three or recursion three here to spending one time to time three
times so total.
How many units.
One one one.
So I can see it takes three units of time for the value of an A3 value of N as a three for the first
value of industry.
If I make it as five then it will take five units of time then for and it will take and units of time.
So it is just like coming back to the example.
If you have to keep one book in Iraq, you are taking one unit of time, ten books, one unit of time
and the books and unit of time, what is and whatever may be.
So the time depends on a number of books.
So here the time depends on the value that we are passing from here.
It may be three, it may be five, or it can be anything.
So we say the time is and units of time so the time can be represented as outdraw.
And the answer that we got is then unit.
So the degree of the polynomial is one.
So we rated as outdraw.
And so the time taken this order of.
And there is one more method of finding the time complexity using recurrence relation.
I will show you how to write recurrence relation and how to solve it to find the time complexity of
recursive functions.
Now let us find out the time complexity of this recursive function.
Using the current solution, we assume that the time taken by this function as B of and for time, if
the time taken that function fondren one is ten, then that total time should be some of all the times
taken by the statements in sight.
So let us look at the statement.
See, there is a statement.
This is a conditional statement.
How much time it takes for execution.
Just one unit of time one.
Then there is a printed statement how much time it takes.
This also takes one.
Then there is one more function called how much time it takes one.
As I said, every statement takes one unit of time for execution for this also have written one.
No, it's wrong.
It's wrong.
See, that is a function call.
So I should know total time taken by that function call.
So it is not just a normal statement, it will call again itself.
So there is something more behind that one.
So I need to know how much time that function call is ticking.
So let us see closely what I said that this function call total time ten then this is similar to that
one and this is and the minus one.
So yes, this will be taking the end minus one time.
Yes.
This is not a normal statement.
There is a function called and it takes being minus one time.
Then what is this total t I said the sum of all the times taken by the statement.
So let's take the sum so that p and as equals to be in the minus one the bigger commemorating first
plus two plus two.
So the total times the energy goes to D and minus one, plus two.
So the reconciliation as the and as equals two big and minus one plus two then.
And is the greater than zero then.
And there's a greater than.
What happens when and is equal to zero one and is equal to zero, it will just check the condition,
it will not enter inside and it will come out.
So just checking the condition, one unit of time.
So it takes one unit of time.
So this is the reconciliation formed from that function.
So the time complexity of recursive function can be represented in the form of reconciliation, not
if we solve this using induction method, also called the successive substitution method, we can get
the answer.
So let us solve this one.
Now, before solving this, I should tell you one thing.
If you have any constant value here, then let us write it as one.
So that means constant is false.
So the reconciliation is city and as equals to be and the minus one plus one.
This is the first equation we have.
I can solve this if I can know what is it T and minus one scene here.
Right.
Since the end is equal to B and the minus one plus one, then what will be B and the minus one.
So if this is and replace it then minus one.
So this will repeat in the minus two.
Plus one.
So I can substitute this one T and minus two, plus one in place of being minus one.
So this I can replace here.
So the next question that I get is the end is equals two to be in the minus one for you D and minus
two.
Plus one.
So the safety and the minus two.
And this plus one as it is.
So this is substituted with this one and then this plus one as it is.
So what is this one.
Finally the end is equal to B and the minus two plus two.
So that is called the first second increase.
Then let us substitute in this place.
So what this will be this will be B and minus three.
Plus one.
So if I substitute that then this will be tiendas equals to B and minus three, plus one and plus two.
So this can be the nasty and as equals to B and minus three.
Plus three.
There's the total accretion.
So I have substituted two times how long I should do this.
Let us continue it four times so K times B and the minus K plus key because this was three.
So there's also three for this four then this will be four.
If this is K then this will also be K.
So the fourth equation, Inglot.
See, we have to solve this one, so substitute and then substitute and then substitute go on substituting
until it reduces down to a smaller value.
That is an equal level where we know the answer.
That is one C when you don't know the answer for a bigger expression, you know the answer for a smaller
expression, then break the bigger one into smaller one.
And it so the same thing we have done, we don't know how much this is, but we know more than is equal
to zero.
And so this is directly one.
So we know that.
So we have tried to reduce this and reduce dissent by substituting and we got this one.
Now we see that this and minus K actually has became zero.
So on that side, I will try.
Don't assume that.
And minus K is equal to zero, so it means we have and minus one that we made it as a minus student
and minus three and so on up to what it became zero.
So we assume that this has become zero.
So it means therefore end is equals to K.
So in this equation, if I substitute that will be B and equals to the and the minus and plus.
And so at the place of K I have written Edner so and minus and plus and so I got this one.
So this is billion as equals to be zero plus and so t and is equal to one plus and so that's all I got
done.
So Deanne's equals one plus and this can be done.
An order of N C earlier directly from the dressing room.
Also I have shown you and plus one was the number of calls.
So yes, I got the number of calls here and the time taken by this function depends on the number of
calls.
So yes, it is outdraw and so it will be for any time from the calls will be and plus one that is one
more than the number of times of printing.
Let us summarize the things that we have learned.
See, I have shown you what does it mean by recursion that I have shown you how to write the recursion
I have traced to that one.
I have shown you two different types of recursion.
Then I have shown you how a stack utilized.
And then we saw how to find the time complexity from the three.
Also, I have shown you and overriding recurrence relation also have shown you and the time complexity
is mostly written.
The order of our degree of that is order of n c.
I'm not using the notations like big omegle data because we have not discussed about them.
So I'll give you the about these notations at some other time.